# Academic Statement
## Prompt
Please write a statement that answers the following questions (1,000 words max):
How has your academic background, including any training, research, or other educational experiences, prepared you for graduate study?
What are your intellectual interests, and what scholarly questions are you interested in exploring in graduate study?
Are there any specific faculty members whose research interests align with your own with whom you would like to work?
How will our program help you achieve your academic and professional goals?

## My outline
- academic background
  - educational
    - Bachelor's degree in Computer Science
  - research
    - research at Peking university
      - Graphics and animation, physics-based character animation
    - research intern at UIUC
- intellectual interests
  - topics
    - computer graphics
      - Physics-based simulation and character animation generation
    - physics-based character animation
    - machine learning
    - robotics
  - personal development
    - 投身于前沿的机器人和图形学技术研发，结合具身智能等概念，能成为有能力推动前沿技术发展和革新的研究者
- Faculty members
  - Yuxiong wang, professor at AI
    - Have same research interest on robotics and physics-based character animation
- How will our program help you achieve your academic and professional goals?
  - Research opportunities
  - advanced courses on related topics
    - higher-level machine learning
    - advanced robotics and control theory
    - help research



一个例子：
Fascinated by the ancient Greek aphorism “Know thyself," I have always been passionate about understandingpatterns and uniqueness in human behaviors. Despite numerous attempts made by generations of scholars, ourunderstanding of human desires, motivations, and behaviors remains fuzzy and incomplete. The recent emergenceof big data is beginning to change this situation, allowing researchers to look at human behavior analytics withsomething like a god's eye perspective. However, developing efficient and effective methods for managing anddiscovering valuable knowledge from large-scale, high-dimensional, and heterogeneous human digital traces, isstill in its early stages. The opportunity for laying the groundwork here is one of several factors that makes thefield of data science especially attractive to me.
My interest has led me to many exciting research projects during my academic career at Tsinghua University, atthe University of' Maryland, and at the MIT Media Lab. My enthusiasm for data science has driven me to seekinnovative methods and novel frameworks. Theoretically, I have been attempting to learn neat representations founstructured high-dimensional human digital records (i.e. spatial temporal data and transaction data). On theapplication side, I have been analyzing human behavior (i.e. mobility, purchasing) pattern and city structurewhich enables a deeper understanding of individuals and society, In graduate school, I would like to continue mypath of data science in both theory and application, and I am particularly passionate about developing state-of-armethodology to represent human physical and cyber behavior within social networks, discovering patterns andanomalies in human digital trajectory and leveraging crowdsourcing to make possible ubiquitous human behavioranalytics. I believe that the CS PhD program at Stanford would provide me with a strong background to fulfill mydream ofbecoming a data scientist.
My jourey with data science "officially" kicked off at the University of Maryland, College Park (UMD), when lwas fortunate enough to be selected as Tsinghua's first exchange student to UMD in fall 2016. With UMDDistinguished Prof. Hanan Samet and Prof. Yong Li of Tsinghua, I began a project on human mobility modellingusing spatial temporal big data, where I proposed a novel framework of visual analytics to study fine-graineccrowd mobility patterns via mobile data. Taking advantage of a week-long dataset on nearly a million users inShanghai, I was able to discover spatial correlation rules and a hidden city structure from crowd mobility, whichprovided valuable insight for urban planners from a novel perspective. Our work has been successfullsummarized into a paper [3] in TVCG with me as first author.
The triumph of the crowd mobility project led to further collaboration between Prof. Hanan Samet and myselffollowing my return to Tsinghua. Further pursuing my interest on spatial temporal data analytics, I was attracted tothe emerging semantic-rich trajectory data from social media (e.g. Twitter), which not only records users’ locationsbut also preserves their activities from user check-ins. Realizing the great potential ofsemantic-rich trajectory datato interpret human motivations behind mobility, I proposed a new project on human living pattern recognition.which was submitted as my second first-author paper to UbiComp [l], the best conference in ubiquitouscomputing. In this project,  tried to identify major living patterns in a population. Observing the limitation of pastresearch which fails to dynamically capture fine-grained semantics, such as the difference between visitingwas determined to develop a more powerful model, Drawing inspirationresidence in working hours and at night. [irom natural language processing, I proposed habitZvec, a deep representation learning based framework thalcarns a numeric vector for the living habit of each user in an unsupervised way. Through large-scale dataset ffered by Chinese leading application vendor Tencent in Beijing, I derived habit2vec clusters revealing majorliving patterns in the population, with their percentage and spatial distribution, which helps us better understandthe city's social economic structure. Meanwhile, I co-authored two papers: one on detecting popular temporamodes in the population, which is conditionally accepted at UbiComp 2018 [6]; the other on a representatiorearning based semantic-aware Hidden Markov Model for mobility modelling [5]. As is often the case, theprogress in one project turns out to be extremely valuable to the other two, which led me to appreciate the powerand joy of collaboration.
was able to further extend my thoughts on representation learning methods for other types of human behavioanalytics. In the summer of 2017, 1 joined the MiT Media Lab Human Dynamics Group as a visiting student andresearch assistant with National Academy of Engineering member Prof. Alex *Sandy’ Pentland and Prof. XiaowenDong. Leveraging a large-scale credit card transaction dataset, I attempted to recognize groups of purchasingpatterns for city economy structure understanding and target advertising. On the methodological side, I upgrademy proposed habitZvec with Monte Carlo simulation to tackle the challenge of data sparsity and randomness ipurchasing habit, which results in high-quality user purchasing embedding vector treating each user's shoppingbehavior as a stochastic process. Furthermore, I conducted extensive studies on the relationship betweenpurchasing behaviors and social-demographic factors (e.g. age, gender), churn patterns, and social learning, andended up with statistically significant results. Thus this ongoing projeet lets me experience the great excitement ofdata science in bridging algorithms and social science.
In addition to this line of projects on pattern mining, I have been trying to broaden my view of research byparticipating in other domains of data science research. With Prof, Vassilis Kostakos from the University ofMelbourne and Prof, Yong Li of Tsinghua, our recent work on location uniqueness and urban morphology hasbeen successfully converted to a paper submission to UbiComp 2018 [2]. Furthermore, i collaborated on anothe!project analyzing e-commerce clickstream data during a shopping holiday sales, with a paper [4] accepted bySpringer Electronic Markets.
[hrough my research experience in data mining and computational social science, i have gained a far-reachingknowledge of this ficld: data extraction and formatting, design of algorithms for handling massive datasetseficiently and effectively, and visualization skills to present my findings clearly. Above all, i have developed myability to define truly valuable research topics, and learnt how to grasp a flashing idea and turn it into a systematicresearch.
A fter two years of immersion in data science research,  am more determined than ever to become a data scientistior social good, and I will spare no effort to realize my dream even though the path twists and tums. At Stanford, lam especially interested in Prof., Jure Leskovec's focus on mining social and information networks (many of hisworks perfectly match with myinterest and experienceon representation learning for human behaviorunderstanding), Prof., Michacl Bernstein's research on social computing (e.8. troll behavior) and crowdsourcing, aswell as projects of Prof. Leonidas Guibas's group on mobility data analytics. At Stanford, there are quite a fewfaculty members whose research interests align well with mine, With my background in data science and sharecgoals, I believe in my ability to succeed in the CS PhD program, and my potential in contributing to Stanford'groundbreaking research for a better future.